Add persistent unique identifiers for objects (#14135)
luanti-org/luanti: doc/lua_api.md

      -- Sound parameter tables support start_time (5.8.0)
      sound_params_start_time = true,
      -- New fields for set_physics_override: speed_climb, speed_crouch,

>       -- liquid_fwuidity, liquid_fwuidity_smooth, liquid_sink,

Reviewer: uwu :3

      as they are only read when spawning.
* `minetest.object_refs`

>     * Map of object references, indexed by active object id

Author: I agree. If nobody is against it, I will remove this from the doc.

>     * Map of object references, indexed by active object id

Reviewer: I think this map is still useful as an efficient way of iterating objects. We could stop documenting the IDs, or replace it with just an iterator of objects I suppose.

      Note: changes to initial properties will only affect entities spawned afterwards,
      as they are only read when spawning.
* `core.object_refs`
    * Map of active object references, indexed by active object id

>     * Deprecated: Use `core.objects_by_guid` instead.

Reviewer 2: "Deprecated" is weird here, as the engine will still keep it for its own use-cases.
How about turning this into a recommendation?

Reviewer: :shrug:

that's what i would have done initially, but i don't see much of a point. it was a mistake to expose active object ids (as keys of this table) to begin with.

so from a modder perspective, `core.objects_by_guid` is strictly better and this table should not be used, because active object ids should not be used.

whether the engine keeps this table, or whether we remove it, doesn't matter; there are plenty of engine APIs we do not want modders to use. and deprecated communicates that. (there doesn't have to be a deprecation warning, though: there's little point in removing this.)

but i'm also fine with wording like "strongly recommended" or "obsolete" :shrug:

Reviewer: called it obsolete

      Note: changes to initial properties will only affect entities spawned afterwards,
      as they are only read when spawning.
* `core.object_refs`
    * Map of active object references, indexed by active object id

>     * Obsolete: Use `core.objects_by_guid` instead.

Reviewer 3: maybe make it clearer that use of this table by mods is deprecated (obsoleted?). It seems unlikely that we will remove the table itself.

          -- Default: false
      }
      ```
* `get_guid()`: returns a global unique identifier (a string)

>     * For players a global unique identiticator is a player name.

Author: The `m_name` from the Player object (`src/player.h`) is actually used. It is the same name that is used to load players from the database.

>     * For non-player objects, it is unique generated string.

Reviewer 4: It's "a unique" because unique makes a "y" sound

#### Lua entity only (no-op for other objects)

* `remove()`: remove object
    * The object is removed after returning from Lua. However the `ObjectRef`
      itself instantly becomes unusable with all further method calls having
      no effect and returning `nil`.
* `set_guid(guid)`:
    * Set a global unique identifier string of entity.
    * Is valid to be called only in `on_activate` callback.

>     * Should be used ONLY for restoring saved guid from staticdata!!!

Author: This allows GUId to be the same across multiple Lua entity loads via restoring it.

>     * Should be used ONLY for restoring saved guid from staticdata!!!

Reviewer: > This allows GUId to be the same across multiple Lua entity loads

That is, in my opinion, the entire point of GUIDs, otherwise active object IDs would suffice (btw, I'd prefer GUID capitalization over GUId, which parses as.. GUI d(aemon?) for me).

The current problem roughly is that (even persistent) entities need not have GUIDs. For example a cart might want to remember which items were attached to it, to try to reattach them. [^1] Or a mob might want to remember which other mob it was currently fighting, etc.

Mods can (and do) already implement their own form(s) of GUIDs, but the problem is that this would require every mod to cooperate and agree on a GUID format (and a way to shove it into staticdata), which doesn't seem to be happening. So we want to put it in the engine, but for standardization and convenience reasons.

But then a big part of it is that persisting GUIDs **must** be done automatically, to force their existence for **all** entities without modder cooperation. `set_guid` should not exist, it just allows modders to mess up.

[^1]: Actually, I feel like this is shaping up to be a different issue related to how and in which order we load and maybe in the future persist attachments

          -- Default: false
      }
      ```
* `get_guid()`: returns a global unique identifier (a string)
    * For players this is a player name.

>     * For Lua entities, it is a unique generated string.

Reviewer 2: * A string which can't be a playername, I suppose?
* Should maybe doc that it's printable.
* Should maybe doc how a lua entity guid looks like, for easier debugging.
* Should doc that this id format will not change between versions, and also not between object reloads, so storing persistently is fine.

          -- Default: false
      }
      ```

> * `get_guid()`: returns a global unique identifier (a string)
>     * For players, this is a player name.
>     * For Lua entities, this is a uniquely generated string, guaranteed not to collide with player names.
>       * Example: `@bGh3p2AbRE29Mb4biqX6OA`
>     * GUIDs only use printable ASCII characters.
>     * GUIDs are persisted internally between object reloads; their format is guaranteed not to change.
>       Thus you can store GUIDs to identify objects persistently.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `get_guid()`: returns a global unique identifier (string)
    * For players, this is a player name.
    * For Lua entities, this is an uniquely generated string, guaranteed not to collide with player names.
      * example: `@bGh3p2AbRE29Mb4biqX6OA`
    * GUIDs only use printable ASCII characters.
    * GUIDs persist between object reloads; their format is guaranteed not to change.
      Thus you can use the GUID to identify a object in particular world online and offline.
```

          -- Default: false
      }
      ```
* `get_guid()`: returns a global unique identifier (a string)
    * For players, this is a player name.
    * For Lua entities, this is a uniquely generated string, guaranteed not to collide with player names.
      * example: `@bGh3p2AbRE29Mb4biqX6OA`
    * GUIDs only use printable ASCII characters.
    * GUIDs persist internally between object reloads; their format is guaranteed not to change.

>       Thus you can use the GUID to identify an object in a particular world online nad offline.

Reviewer 5: nad -> and

>       Thus you can use the GUID to identify an object in a particular world online and offline.

Reviewer 3: While correct I think mentioning static_save here is weird, so I vote for option 2
